README.md, before:

# ChatopsDeployer

A lightweight Sinatra app that deploys staging apps of git branches
in docker containers. Meant to be used with hubot.

## Requirements

**All commands need to be run as the root user**
So it's best if you can run this on a dedicated disposable server.

1. virtualbox - For creating isolated VMs for each project
3. docker-machine - For starting docker daemons on VMs
2. docker-compose - For running multi-container apps using docker daemons on VMs
4. nginx - For setting up a subdomain for each deployment

TODO: setup script to install requirements on Ubuntu 14.04

## Installation

    $ gem install chatops_deployer

## Usage

Set the following ENV vars:

```bash
export DEPLOYER_HOST=<hostname where nginx listens>
export WORKSPACE=<path where you want your projects to be git-cloned> # default: '/var/www'
export NGINX_SITES_ENABLED_DIR=<path to sites-enabled directory in nginx conf> # default: '/etc/nginx/sites-enabled'
export COPY_SOURCE_DIR = <path to directory containing source files to be copied over to projects> # default: '/etc/chatops_deployer/copy'
export DEPLOYER_REGISTRY_MIRROR = <URL of docker registry mirror if you want to make use of faster docker image pulls> # default: nil
export DEPLOYER_CACHE_PATH = <path on host which will be mounted on VMs for every deployment> #default: '/etc/chatops_deployer/cache'

# Optional to use Vault for managing and distributing secrets
export VAULT_ADDR= <address where vault server is listening>
export VAULT_TOKEN= <token which can read keys stored under path secret/*>
export VAULT_CACERT= <CA certificate file to verify vault server SSL certificate>
```
And run the server as the root user:

    $ chatops_deployer

### Configuration

To configure an app for deployment using chatops_deployer API, you need to follow the following steps:

#### 1. Dockerize the app

Add a `docker-compose.yml` file inside the root of the app that can run the app
and the dependent services as docker containers using the command `docker-compose up`.
Refer [the docker compose docs](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) to learn how
to prepare this file for your app.

#### 2. Add chatops_deployer.yml

Add a `chatops_deployer.yml` file inside the root of the app.
This file will tell `chatops_deployer` about ports to expose as haikunated
subdomains, commands to run after cloning the repository and also if any files
need to be copied into the project after cloning it for any runtime configuration.

Here's an example `chatops_deployer.yml` :

```yaml
# `expose` is a hash in the format <service>:<array of ports>
# <service> : Service name as specified in docker-compose.yml
# <array of ports> : Ports on the container which should be exposed as subdomains
expose:
  web: [3000]

# `commands` is a hash in the format <service>: {first_run: <array of commands>, next_runs: <array of commands>}
# Commands under first_run are run only once, when the container is run for the first time.
# Commands under next_runs are for all subsequent deployments in the same container, but not
# run on the first deployment.
# Commands are run in the same order as they appear in the list.
commands:
  web:
    first_run:
      - bundle exec rake db:create
      - bundle exec rake db:schema:load
    next_runs:
      - bundle exec rake db:migrate

# `copy` is an array of strings in the format "<source>:<destination>"
# If source begins with './' , the source file is searched from the root of the cloned
# repo, else it is assumed to be a path to a file relative to
# /etc/chatops_deployer/copy in the deployer server.
# destination is the path relative to chatops_deployer.yml to which the source file
# should be copied. Copying of files happen soon after the repository is cloned
# and before any docker containers are created.
# If the source file ends with .erb, it's treated as an ERB template and gets
# processed. You have access to the following objects inside the ERB templates:
# "env", "vault"
#
# "env" holds the exposed urls. For example:
# "<%= env['urls']['web']['3000'] %>" will be replaced with "http://crimson-cloud-12.example.com"
#
# "vault" can be used to access secrets managed using Vault if you have set it up
# "<%= vault.read('secret/app-name/AWS_SECRET_KEY', 'value') %>" will be replaced with the secret key fetched from Vault
# using the command `vault read -field=value secret/app-name/AWS_SECRET_KEY`
copy:
  - "./config.dev.env.erb:config.env"
```

### Deployment

To deploy an app using `chatops_deployer`, send a POST request to `chatops_deployer`
like so :

```
curl -XPOST  -d '{"repository":"https://github.com/user/app.git","branch":"master","callback_url":"example.com/deployment_status"}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" localhost:8000/deploy
```

You can see that the request accepts a `callback_url`. chatops_deployer will
POST to this callback_url with the following data:

1. Success callback

Example:
```json
{
  status: 'deployment_success',
  branch: 'master',
  urls: { web: ['misty-meadows-123.deployer-host.com'] }
}
```

2. Failure callback

Example:
```json
{
  status: 'deployment_failure',
  branch: 'master',
  reason: 'f052f10148bd290321b84f44: Nginx error: Config directory /etc/nginx/sites-enabled does not exist'
}
```

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/code-mancers/chatops_deployer.


## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Mount a cached volume on every VM

README.md, after:

# ChatopsDeployer

A lightweight Sinatra app that deploys staging apps of git branches
in docker containers. Meant to be used with hubot.

## Requirements

**All commands need to be run as the root user**
So it's best if you can run this on a dedicated disposable server.

1. virtualbox - For creating isolated VMs for each project
3. docker-machine - For starting docker daemons on VMs
2. docker-compose - For running multi-container apps using docker daemons on VMs
4. nginx - For setting up a subdomain for each deployment

TODO: setup script to install requirements on Ubuntu 14.04

## Installation

    $ gem install chatops_deployer

## Usage

Set the following ENV vars:

```bash
export DEPLOYER_HOST=<hostname where nginx listens>
export WORKSPACE=<path where you want your projects to be git-cloned> # default: '/var/www'
export NGINX_SITES_ENABLED_DIR=<path to sites-enabled directory in nginx conf> # default: '/etc/nginx/sites-enabled'
export COPY_SOURCE_DIR = <path to directory containing source files to be copied over to projects> # default: '/etc/chatops_deployer/copy'
export DEPLOYER_REGISTRY_MIRROR = <URL of docker registry mirror if you want to make use of faster docker image pulls> # default: nil
export DEPLOYER_CACHE_PATH = <path on host which will be mounted on VMs for every deployment> #default: '/etc/chatops_deployer/cache'

# Optional to use Vault for managing and distributing secrets
export VAULT_ADDR= <address where vault server is listening>
export VAULT_TOKEN= <token which can read keys stored under path secret/*>
export VAULT_CACERT= <CA certificate file to verify vault server SSL certificate>
```
And run the server as the root user:

    $ chatops_deployer

### Configuration

To configure an app for deployment using chatops_deployer API, you need to follow the following steps:

#### 1. Dockerize the app

Add a `docker-compose.yml` file inside the root of the app that can run the app
and the dependent services as docker containers using the command `docker-compose up`.
Refer [the docker compose docs](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) to learn how
to prepare this file for your app.

#### 2. Add chatops_deployer.yml

Add a `chatops_deployer.yml` file inside the root of the app.
This file will tell `chatops_deployer` about ports to expose as haikunated
subdomains, commands to run after cloning the repository and also if any files
need to be copied into the project after cloning it for any runtime configuration.

Here's an example `chatops_deployer.yml` :

```yaml
# `expose` is a hash in the format <service>:<array of ports>
# <service> : Service name as specified in docker-compose.yml
# <array of ports> : Ports on the container which should be exposed as subdomains
expose:
  web: [3000]

# `commands` is a hash in the format <service>: {first_run: <array of commands>, next_runs: <array of commands>}
# Commands under first_run are run only once, when the container is run for the first time.
# Commands under next_runs are for all subsequent deployments in the same container, but not
# run on the first deployment.
# Commands are run in the same order as they appear in the list.
commands:
  web:
    first_run:
      - bundle exec rake db:create
      - bundle exec rake db:schema:load
    next_runs:
      - bundle exec rake db:migrate

# `copy` is an array of strings in the format "<source>:<destination>"
# If source begins with './' , the source file is searched from the root of the cloned
# repo, else it is assumed to be a path to a file relative to
# /etc/chatops_deployer/copy in the deployer server.
# destination is the path relative to chatops_deployer.yml to which the source file
# should be copied. Copying of files happen soon after the repository is cloned
# and before any docker containers are created.
# If the source file ends with .erb, it's treated as an ERB template and gets
# processed. You have access to the following objects inside the ERB templates:
# "env", "vault"
#
# "env" holds the exposed urls. For example:
# "<%= env['urls']['web']['3000'] %>" will be replaced with "http://crimson-cloud-12.example.com"
#
# "vault" can be used to access secrets managed using Vault if you have set it up
# "<%= vault.read('secret/app-name/AWS_SECRET_KEY', 'value') %>" will be replaced with the secret key fetched from Vault
# using the command `vault read -field=value secret/app-name/AWS_SECRET_KEY`
copy:
  - "./config.dev.env.erb:config.env"

# chatops_deployer mounts a volume on every VM inside which docker containers
# are created. By default, the mount point is /cache. Use cache_mount_point
# to override the mount path.
# This directory can then be mounted inside the required services
# in docker-compose.yml.
cache_mount_point: /tmp/cache
```

### Deployment

To deploy an app using `chatops_deployer`, send a POST request to `chatops_deployer`
like so :

```
curl -XPOST  -d '{"repository":"https://github.com/user/app.git","branch":"master","callback_url":"example.com/deployment_status"}' -H "Content-Type: application/json" localhost:8000/deploy
```

You can see that the request accepts a `callback_url`. chatops_deployer will
POST to this callback_url with the following data:

1. Success callback

Example:
```json
{
  status: 'deployment_success',
  branch: 'master',
  urls: { web: ['misty-meadows-123.deployer-host.com'] }
}
```

2. Failure callback

Example:
```json
{
  status: 'deployment_failure',
  branch: 'master',
  reason: 'f052f10148bd290321b84f44: Nginx error: Config directory /etc/nginx/sites-enabled does not exist'
}
```

## Development

After checking out the repo, run `bin/setup` to install dependencies. Then, run `rake` to run the tests. You can also run `bin/console` for an interactive prompt that will allow you to experiment.

To install this gem onto your local machine, run `bundle exec rake install`. To release a new version, update the version number in `version.rb`, and then run `bundle exec rake release`, which will create a git tag for the version, push git commits and tags, and push the `.gem` file to [rubygems.org](https://rubygems.org).

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at https://github.com/code-mancers/chatops_deployer.


## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
